Detailed Technical Solution Description

The proposed solution is a multi-stage AI-powered phishing and QR-code detection platform designed to classify URLs/domains as safe or malicious and generate detailed forensic evidence reports. The architecture integrates machine learning, heuristic analysis, and automated reporting within a scalable and asynchronous pipeline.

Architecture Overview
Input Layer
Accepts individual URLs, QR codes, or CSV files containing bulk inputs from users.

Feature Extraction
Extracts lexical features (URL entropy, digit ratio, subdomain count, IP presence), WHOIS and DNS-based attributes (registrar info, creation date, MX records), IP/ASN data, and SSL certificate transparency info.

Detection Engine

Stage 1: A TensorFlow-based ANN classifies inputs as safe or phishing using normalized feature vectors.

Stage 2: A LightGBM multi-class model attributes detected phishing URLs to corresponding Critical Sector Enterprises (CSEs).

Evidence Generation Module
Generates forensic reports automatically:

Captures screenshots using Playwright.

Creates structured PDF reports using ReportLab.

Logs all detections in an Excel file and saves them into MongoDB.

Dashboard (Streamlit)
Provides an interactive web interface for real-time single/bulk detections, feature visualization, report downloads, and model reloads.

Key Features
Asynchronous and concurrent evidence generation.

MongoDB-based storage for predictions and metadata.

Modular architecture supporting scalable expansion to new sectors.

Fully automated report generation with screenshots and detection summaries.

Execution Instructions

Clone the repository or extract all files into a working directory.

Create and activate a Python virtual environment:

bash
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate   # or venv\Scripts\activate on Windows
Install dependencies:

bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
Configure MongoDB credentials and API keys in environment variables.

Run the Streamlit application:

bash
streamlit run app_streamlit.py
For bulk URL detection, upload a CSV file from the dashboard and retrieve results with evidence reports.

Optional

To generate standalone reports, execute evidence_generator.py to run evidence collection asynchronously.

Use detection_pipeline.py to integrate the detection core with other systems or APIs.

The system is modular, scalable, and lightweight, capable of continuous adaptation to new phishing data sources and integration with real-time threat intelligence APIs.